[Music]
we're going to begin in Gaza where the
UN says that Israel may have committed
war crimes during its raid in alnus at
refugee camp on Saturday the United
Nations human rights office has
questioned whether International
humanitarian laws were observed when
Israeli forces raided the camp in
central Gaza on Saturday to free four
captives 274 Palestinians were killed
and more than 700 were injured the UN
also says war crimes may have been
committed by Palestinian armed groups
and they include the Detention of
captives in densely populated areas
we're going to head to Central Gaza
we're going to speak to talum outside
the alaka hospital in De alala and the
alaka hospital is where many of the
victims of that attack are being taken
talk to us about what's been
happening well what we really hear from
uh those victims and even from the
injuries is absolutely devastating
where're talking about at least 600 98
Palestinians being wed from the attack
that was carried out by the Israeli
Special Force in aarat refugee camp in
order to release for Israeli captives
now we've been talking to a number of uh
injured people they have been describing
the general atmosphere where they have
been injured and the one of them has
been saying that we were getting ready
to eat as we suddenly heard loud
explosions as we saw dozens of Israel
helicopters firing and opening the fire
against multiple areas in at refugee
camp and later on we heard the sound of
the Israeli tanks as we start hearing
from people that there is a special
force operating in anarat refugee camp
later on the this special force has
stormed this injured person house the
has arrested his uh father and his
Granda and at the same time one of the
Israeli Special Forces soldiers have
opened the fire against him where he has
been shot in his chest and in his
abdomen being now receiving treatment in
AA hospital and this is one of the
critical conditions that resulted from
anarat Refugee attack that was carried
out just two days ago now the groom
reality is not only that this case but
General cases what are right now in a
very desperate need for advanced
surgeries and they are unable to leave
Gaza in order uh to get treatment due to
the Israeli foreclosure of borders and
the ongoing control over Philadelphia
coridor and the Grim reality day by day
is exasperating in light of the chronic
short AG of basic medical suppliers as
there are some injured people are unable
to afford for them different kinds of
medications that are essentially
required in order to help them to
recover as soon as possible but people
are still afraid due to the collapse of
the sense of safety across this trip and
and areas uh and areas also that were
designated by the Israeli military to be
safe zones T thank you very much indeed
that's T kabo was bringing us up to date
from outside the alaka hospital in
darala in Gaza well I'm joined now from
Geneva by Jeremy Lawrence he's
spokesperson for the UN High
Commissioner for human rights thank you
very much indeed for being with us so
the allegations are being made that war
crimes may have been committed by
Israeli forces during this particular
raid but also by Palestinian Fighters as
well can you describe to me how you
gather evidence for allegations like
that yes hi and thank you so we are
obviously we have uh uh we're monitoring
closely what's happening on the ground
and we assess information that comes in
now as your correspondent has said
during the operation on the weekend
hundreds of Palestinians many of them
civilians uh were reportedly killed and
uh injured uh our concern is it's the
manner in uh uh the way in which this
raid was conducted uh in such a densely
populated area uh in in Middle Gaza this
seriously calls into question whether
the principles of Distinction precaution
and proportionality which are bedrocks
of uh the laws of War uh were respected
by the Israeli forces in terms of the
the allegations that are being made
against Palestinian Fighters again how
is it that you are able to assess the
the situation and in order to be able to
gather evidence to suggest that that uh
war crimes may have been committed in
that
case Okay so the the same applies and
when it C uh with respect to the
Palestinian armed uh armed groups they
are continuing to hold hostages Now The
Taking of hostages under International
humanitarian law is forbidden uh it's a
it's a serious breach beyond that uh we
have the holding of hostages in densely
populated areas so you're not only
putting the hostages themselves at risk
but also Palestinians at risk uh both
all these aspects that I've raised
uh could be uh amount to war crimes so
when you make the assessments that
you've made for both sides what do you
then do with that evidence and also what
constitutes evidence that could be
presented in a form that would allow a
case to move
forward well quite simply our office uh
gathers information and we know what the
laws are the international humanitarian
laws are quite clear uh we then make
sure that all sides parties abide by
those abide by the by those laws which
are set out under the Geneva conventions
then we assemble the information uh we
will call out if we see an issue uh with
respect to adherence to these laws uh
and then this information can be passed
on to International
tribunes uh the to a certain degree it
comes down and please forgive me but I I
don't understand how this system works
but there is I get the sense that there
is an element that that is open to
interpretation that uh the UN will make
an assessment based on this on the
criteria that you have put forward but
of course the Israelis and the
Palestinians may come back and say no
that is not how this worked actually on
the ground this is simply a broad
assessment of what of a broad picture uh
that was seen um what um how confident
can you be in the in the evidence that
you're presenting uh that the case is
actually representative of what you've
been seeing on the
ground okay so in the case of the
weekend's operation as your
correspondent said there were 270 people
killed now four hostages were freed in
the process we welcomed the the the fact
that they've been freed they should
never have been taken in the first place
but what we saw was a mass uh
destruction and a massive amount of uh
killings uh so there's that aspect we
all we simply do we will collect
evidence and then pass it on to a
relevant competent court if need be and
they will take the decision based on the
uh assessment that we have
made Jeremy Lawrence it's very
interesting to get your assessment of
this and the benefit of your expertise
in this thank you very much indeed for
being being with us on
Al thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer